---
layout: post
title: Asynchronicity: Auto Update Statistics Async
date: 2015-08-11 22:16
author: cjsommer@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
I'll take "Configurations that we didn't quite understand that caused a significant performance problem " category for $100, Alex. Thankfully we found our issue while the database was still in pre-implementation phase, but man did this one throw us for a loop. It took us about a week to figure out why our batch process, which normally runs in 1.5 hours, was running for...well, forever. We never got a successful run of our batch process until we figured out that Async Stats was causing our issue.

Statistics are a good thing. Without going into details, they help SQL Server make smart choices about how to retrieve your data when it is compiling query plans. SQL Server provides a number of configuration options for controlling how statistics are generated at the database level. The configuration I am talking about today is called "Auto Update Stats Async". 

The definition in the SQL Server documentation is this:

<h5>Auto Update Statistics Asynchronously</h5>
When <strong>True</strong>, queries that initiate an automatic update of out-of-date statistics will not wait for the statistics to be updated before compiling. Subsequent queries will use the updated statistics when they are available.
When <strong>False</strong>, queries that initiate an automatic update of out-of-date statistics, wait until the updated statistics can be used in the query optimization plan.
Setting this option to True has no effect unless Auto Update Statistics is also set to True.

Sounds pretty cool right? Like we're going to get a slight performance boost out of using it. This is true, but it is very important to understand the impact of this option. To illustrate the possible negative impact I will use our batch load process as an example.

The batch process goes something like this:
1. Truncate a number of tables in a database.  
2. Drop the indexes on those tables.
3. Load the empty tables with new data. 
4. Rebuild the indexes on the freshly loaded tables.





