---
layout: post
title: Just
date: 2015-06-29 09:08
author: cjsommer@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
<em>"You keep using that word. I do not think that word means what you think it means."</em> - Inigno Montoya

<em><strong>Just</strong></em> can have a negative impact, especially on a junior or new member of your team.

<em><strong>Just</strong></em> downplays complexity. "Just make the databases the same." The database schemas have been diverging for over a year, development hasn't been checking their DDL into source control like they should have, so now it's your problem to true it up.

<em><strong>Just</strong></em> assumes knowledge. "Just write a PowerShell script to do that" or "Just use SSIS". What if you've never touched either technology? Both of these requests assume some level of knowledge and experience, and neither PowerShell or SSIS are simple technologies to master. 

<em><strong>Just</strong></em> assumes enough information has been provided for the task at hand. "Just copy the backups to the server." What they forgot to tell you is that that the new server is on a totally different domain, so there will be permission and firewall port issue you have to deal with. I guess this is really just another example of over-simplification.

<em><strong>Just</strong></em> shows your lack of interest in someone else's problem.

<em><strong>Just</strong></em> is a shitty way to dump your problem on someone else, and make it their problem.

<em><strong>Just</strong></em> is a great way for making someone else feel bad for not knowing. Like everything being asked should just be known. Don't get me wrong, there is a lot of expectations around base knowledge of a DBA, but everyone has to start somewhere. Everyone takes their own path. 
